---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "A Reflection on Javascript and Modules"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-08-29
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
---

*Difficulty: a thing that is hard to accomplish, deal with, or understand.*

	Javascript remains as one of the most used programming languages regarding the design of websites, as it has many features that give it a great deal of versatility for programmers, as well as convenience for the users accessing those websites. This will be my first formal course in Javascript, and hopefully the skills and knowledge I learn here will help me better understand programming as a whole. 
	As the only other programming language that I have any experience with is Java, the differences between it and Javascript do not seem to be as apparent to me, other than some differences in syntax. I am sure that my perspective of it will change and grow as I learn and use it more and as I begin to properly start making my own webpages, but that remains to be seen. However, I do know from readings and prior knowledge that Javascript is commonly used for most major websites, as it does not have to be compiled beforehand, giving it advantages in the features that those websites can have. This makes it a necessity to learn, as it is one of the many skills I should have by the time I start looking for a career. It is also possible that by learning the various differences between Javascript and Java, I will be able to expand my knowledge of how languages vary from one another and the strengths and weaknesses that each other have in comparison to another. After all, without knowing multiple different languages, there is no way that I can understand the benefits that using one language has over the one in certain circumstances and scenarios. A similar learning process will happen as I experience ES6, since I can see how programming evolves over time, which will be important as languages continue to change and evolve over time in the future. Due to all this, although I do not have a strong grasp on Javascript yet nor can I properly explain the nuances of the language from the perspective of a seasoned software engineer, Javascript seems to be a powerful language for software engineering, if not for its uses and capabilities, then for its opportunity to be used as a learning experience.
  As for the approach the instructors have been taking for the course itself, athletic software engineering is certainly a different experience than the ones I have had in the other courses I have taken. Honestly, I am much more used to doing one semi-complicated assignment per week or even one every two weeks, so to suddenly have so much to do every day is going to take some getting used to. My honest first thoughts are that I firmly believe that sometime during this semester, I will inevitably burn out and the quality of my assignment submissions are going to decline dramatically, assuming I do not just stop submitting assignments altogether. There just does not seem to be much time or room for a break, which is going to be a strain on me, especially with the other courses that I am taking at the same time. Suffice to say, I do not think this course will be enjoyable. However, I have been worried about how much information I retain from the courses that I take, as well as the skills that I need to develop for my future career, so this course does seem to address that by ensuring that any skills and information we need will be retained by us out of necessity. The WODs seem to do a good job of that by giving us ample opportunity to practice and forcing us to ensure we know exactly what we are doing, as well as to be prepared enough for approaching problems that we do not immediately know the solution to. So it does seem like this course will be a great learning opportunity. Whether it works out or not is completely up to my ability to manage my own schedule and stress levels (so probably not). 
  Overall, my initial impressions of the course are cautious but favorable, and I do believe that learning Javascript is a necessity for the learning and comprehension of software engineering, and will be an important stepping stone for learning other languages. 
